+++
title = 'Three Star Michelin Dining in Japan'
date = 2023-09-05T10:00:28-07:00
draft = true
+++

Original post:

This is going to sound like a humble brag but I promise it isn't. I've been to a plethora of Michelin restaurants in several countries. I was collecting three-star Michelins for a while and after a dozen or so I swore it off. It had gotten boring. Sure, the chefs can figure out some new unique way to serve something different from the other French-trained culinary masters but in the end, it starts to all taste the same. Then you have the same kind of service, same type of silverware, and the same feel regardless of whether you're dining in New York, London, Lyon, or Girona. This is understandable because a three-star Michelin demands consistency and that's important if you need to have a business meeting go well or whatnot. But consistency makes for boring if you've had enough of it. Not to mention, I've gotten tired of some of the snooty three-star places who let it get to their heads and just try to push you to order the most expensive wines they can convince you to get (because that's where the highest margins are).

I finally made my way to Japan and despite my reservations, decided to try their three-star Michelin ranked restaurants. They were refreshingly different from how I expected three-star Michelins to be up to that point. Same satisfaction, different feel. With a renewed interest in Michelin dining, I started to try all of the ones I could get reservations for and those even managed to be different from each other especially the farther out from the major cities I went. Incidentally, many of the high-ranked Japanese restaurants also tend to be ones where you can talk directly to the chef without much pretense. After talking with a few (through an interpreter), I don't think I've even met a Michelin chef in Japan who cared about their star (maybe unless they were running a Western-style restaurant themselves but I haven't tried them). I met one who straight out told us not to listen to the guide. The reasoning is that there is tremendous pressure for many Michelin ranked restaurants to conform to what the Michelin expects but that leads to that feeling of sameness.

More than a few people regard the Michelin ratings in Japan with some incredulity and suspect that Michelin inspectors simply enjoy the seeming boondoggles in Japanese dining. However, after talking with a few chefs, a lot more goes into Japanese dining than it looks especially with regards to prep work. Many people know that the way you cut the fish is important for taste and requires experience but in terms of preparation, one particular place I visited inspected soy beans one at a time and refused to use any of the ones that didn't look good. For their customers, presentation mattered just as much as the taste. Oftentimes, the bean was going to be covered in something anyway so most people wouldn't notice, but it mattered to the chef.

That's why I think the Michelin Guide likes the country so much: good food and meticulous presentation. The service is fine, nothing awe-inspiringly different, but they don't try to emulate the mannerisms of their western Michelin counterparts for the pursuit of a star - the staff just does what their culture perceives to be good service. The one thing I appreciated the most though was that none of them ever pushed me to buy their alcohol. I did anyway (and a lot of it) because it was usually more affordable than the egregiously priced wines I'm used to.

I actually originally wrote this post as a response in another forum in defense of the guide coming to Korea. The general consensus was that Korean dining did not often conform to the vaunted Michelin experience, certainly not a three-star one, but I contended that based on my experiences with the highest ranked Michelins in Japan, people shouldn't write Korea off quite so readily. If the Michelin Guide awards their three-star ratings to a few restaurants in Korea, I am certainly looking forward to stopping by to try them out. I may be just as surprised with what they can offer as I was with Japan.